Purpose: provokes us to examine the intent of a specific claim or statement
Question: prompts us to clearly identify the problem or issue at the core of any given line of reasoning.
Information: guides us to consider the specific pieces of evidence and/or data points presented.
Interpretation: encourages us to reflect on the underlying inferences we are drawing between the information and claims we encounter during our daily lives.
Concept: urges us to investigate the validity of the laws, theories and the accepted principles on which claims and arguments are based.
Assumption: when assessing claims or information, the assumption element encourages us to explore what the claim or information may be taking for granted.
Implications: prompts us to deeply consider the consequences of statements and claims to determine the potential downstream effects.
Point of View: ensures that we reflect upon the source and perspective of claims presented during everyday life. 



terms -> definition
    REM rapid eye movement
    SWS slow wave sleep 

clues in the text about where its going 
    When he reawakened, he found that his scribbles were illegible -> 
    proved something Loewi had long hypothesized - maybe the time of thinking of something my 

counter claim
    Jessica Payne from the University of Notre Dame notes that in one of her experiments, SWS had the opposite effect

claim -> red
    the two main phases of sleep might work together to boost creative problem-solving.-> ren and non-rem
        subclaims
            sleep promotes creative problem-solving.
            During that state, the brain replays memories
            dreaming is the conscious manifestation of this process
            especially strong during SWS because 
            allow the neocortex to unconsciously search for similarities between seemingly unrelated concepts 
            non-REM sleep extracts concepts, and REM sleep connects them.
            Over the course of a night hippocampus and neocortex repeatedly sync up and decouple, 
            Parts of this framework are based on strong data, but others are still conjectures that need to be tested. -> this is more of a fact
            maybe do not rush to solve diffecolt problem 
            slow-wave improves the ability to identify common concepts.
            If they sleep afterwards, they’re more likely to (falsely) remember 
            REM sleep in combining conceptual knowledge 


help me understand the argment _> green
    the same neurons that fired when a rat ran through a maze during the day will spontaneously fire while it sleeps at night, in roughly the same order. -> 
    He wrote it down on a piece of paper and promptly returned to sleep. When he reawakened, he found that his scribbles were illegible. 
    sleep and creativity are linked. Specifically, their idea explains how the two main phases of sleep—REM and non-REM—work together to help us find unrecognized links between what we already know, and discover out-of-the-box solutions to vexing problems
    For example, the same neurons that fired when a rat ran through a maze during the day will spontaneously fire while it sleeps at night, in roughly the same order. 
    it’s effectively your brain watching itself replaying and transforming its own memories.
    The first—the hippocampus—is a seahorse-shaped region in the middle of the brain that captures memories of events and places. The second—the neocortex—is the outer layer of the brain and, among other things, it’s where memories of facts, ideas, and concepts are stored. Lewis’s idea is that the hippocampus nudges the neocortex into replaying memories that are thematically related
    disrupting the connection between the hippocampus and the neocortex, and placing both in an especially flexible state, where connections between neurons can be more easily formed, strengthened, or weakened.
    the neocortex will replay abstracted, simplified elements [of that problem], but also other things that are randomly activated. It’ll then strengthen the commonalities between those things. When you wake up the next day, that slight strengthening might allow you to see what you were working on in a slightly different way. That might just allow you to crack the problem.”
    Some people argued that slow wave sleep is important for creativity and others argued that it’s REM. We’re saying it’s both
    An analogy would be two researchers who initially work on the same problem together, then go away and each think about it separately, then come back together to work on it further
    there isn’t much evidence to support Lewis’s hunch that the hippocampus prods the neocortex into replaying related memories during non-REM sleeps
    lost most REM sleep after a brain injury; “he’s a high-functioning lawyer and he writes puzzles for his local newspaper
    “I’m sure [the theory] isn’t 100 percent right,” she adds

should not be in the text purple
    like a cellular greek chorus
    the way the planets revolve around the sun and the way electrons orbit the nucleus of an atom - pick one or the other 
    maybe don't do it in too much of a rush


Questions to answare
    What is the main argument/claim?
        the main claim is the two main phases of sleep might work together to boost creative problem-solving.

    What reasons (sub claims) are being made to support the argument?
        sleep promotes creative problem-solving

        During that state, the brain replays memories 


    What evidence is being used to support the argument?
        when you fall a sleep you start by going into a light sleep you are in most of the night we call this non rem sleep at some time in the night you fall into a much intense sleep that that waking up from becomes difficolt 
        "He wrote it down on a piece of paper and promptly returned to sleep when he reawakened he found that his scribbles were illegible" Otto Loewi says the support the claim that waking form this sleep is difficolt 
        This suggest that Penny Lewis and her other two colleagues that came up with this claim are reliable because one part of their claim holds true to if we are to believe that otto was in fact in a deep SWS sleep it would be difficult to wake up from as said in the study 
        by peeny Lewis "you'd be unhappy if you were wroken up"

        During that state, the brain replays memories 

    What are the key concepts (ideas and terms that are central to the main point of the text), and how are they defined?
        REM -> stands for rapid eye movement a different 
        Non REM -> a light phase of sleep that you are in most of the night 
        SWS-> a much intence sleep where millions of neurons fire all at the same time you a deep physiological sleep 
        hippocampus->is a seahorse-shaped region in the middle of the brain that captures memories of events and places
        neoxortex->is the outer layer of the brain and, among other things, it’s where memories of facts, ideas, and concepts are stored

    What does the author want the audience to believe? Feel? Do?
        the writer whats to suggest that maybe sleep is very very imporent it does not only recharge but also links memories to understand problem and diffecolt subject in ways we cant do when we are awake and would never even think are related 
    Who is the author and what is their background? Expertise?
        the author is Ed Yong a staff writer for the Atlantic he has won the Pulitzer Prize for writings during covid 19.
    Does the author sufficiently support their claims?
        I believe the author does a solid job of supporting his clams in some part and bad in others 
    How does the author appeal to readers?
        he shows that he nor the people that are doing the research are 100 persent solid on it being the absolute through which to me lends to his character and thoughs of the researchers the ability to be wrong a 
        A fundamental characteristic of people trying to achieve something that has never been done

    How evenhandedly does the writer present the argument?
        to me it feels as he want it to be true i mean who wouldnt you get smarter if you sleep and can solve new and harder problems i believe it to be lopsided but there are 
        Multiple points they acknowledge that the research could be wrong and in one instance acknowledging that another research actually got the exact opposite of something that they found  

    What is the author’s tone? Is it appropriate?
        trying to educate the readers of this paper in a very upfront but happy demener showed by the last This is showing a perfectly at the end of the paper when interviewing Mark Van rosem from the University of 
        Nottingham and her research to create an artificial intelligence that learns with respect to the research shown in the paper Ed Young says I wonder if it will Dream of Electric Sheep showing a whimsical happy hoping for the best type of spirit

    To what extent has the author convinced you? Why?
        The intent was that sleep is fundamentally important and that I not only should sleep my given hours a day but that might sleep matters 
        so much to the point where I will be able to solve more complex problems the next day after I sleep this is conveyed very well to me probably
        because I want to be convinced of such and when reading it the thought of falling asleep and waking up even just a tad bit more intelligent would be a dream come true and if it is not a dream a reality
